---
layout: post
title: Round The Bays Half Marathon
---
So I have just entered my first half marathon for eighteen months, the Cigna Round the Bays. I haven’t run that far in about a year and I have just five weeks to prepare. My old personal best, run in 2014, was in the region of 97 minutes and to try to even get close to this with only just over a month in which to train may sound incredibly optimistic…and it probably is. Earlier tonight, just before I filled out my entry form, I went for a ‘practise run’, ten miles at what I hope is a realistic race pace and it went pretty well. I managed it in an hour and twenty three minutes including traffic light stops, which is encouraging. Obviously I know that it’s overly ambitious to aim at anywhere near my pb pace and this time I just want to see if I can still run that distance competitively. Having scouted out the first half of the course, it seems pleasantly flat although being Wellington, the waterfront is prone to some quite ferocious gusts of wind which may make things more challenging!

UPDATE 07/02/2016:

So, just a little update on my half marathon training as this time in two weeks I’ll be running it! I have increased my mileage quite a lot from what I have been doing recently and I’ve been surprised at how well I seem to have responded to training again. I have also read some very interesting articles about how actually having a long rest period after heavy training can be a good thing as your muscles retain the ability to respond to training, so it doesn’t take the same amount of time to regain fitness as it did to build it in the first place. In some of my recent training runs, I have managed a 1oK in 45 minutes and 11 miles in about an hour and a half, which are the sort of times I used to run in training sessions. I am encouraged that come race day, I should be able to get round in under two hours, especially if the weather is kind to me! i have however, realised the importance of being mentally strong while running and getting enough sleep. Earlier this week, after a poor night’s sleep, I had one of the worst training runs I’ve ever had. It was a very hot evening, I was trying to run 10K and it just wasn’t happening. I felt like I was running through treacle, I kept telling myself I couldn’t do it, that I wasn’t ready to race so soon, I was virtually in tears. By the time I got to the gym for my planned post-run session, I was actually in tears and having a full-on meltdown. The next day though, I tried another run of the same distance, this one was back to how I normally run, my normal pace, my normal confidence that I’ll be OK. This really highlighted to me how important it is to get enough sleep, to be able to recover and think properly – a lesson well learnt!




